(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(NARRATOR READING)
NARRATOR: The Harmattan.
Anga? How much further
to the waterfall?
Not far.
Just up ahead.
And I think see
the moja kwa moja  stone.
Oh, that means we really
are on the right path
to the Tree of Life.
Indeed.
ONO: According to Rafiki's
map on the Lair,
the Back Lands waterfall
is the first landmark
after Pride Rock.
Right. Anga, lead the way!
Oh! That sure looks like
a moja kwa moja  stone.
Yep, there's
the Tree of Life.
BESHTE: Poa!
After the waterfall,
I'm pretty sure
we need to find a tree.
(GASPS)
There's a whole lot
of trees over there!
Let's try that way.
Wait a tick.
ONO: It's not just
any kind of tree.
We need to find an iroko tree.
They're very distinctive.
Hmm.
Now, let me see.
Aw. If only I could see.
Come on, Ono.
You can still see.
You're just not good at it.
BOTH: Bunga!
No, Bunga's right.
Anga, you're keenest
of sight now.
Do you know what
an iroko tree looks like?
Yep. And I'll see
if I can find it.
Anga -lenga!
Not there.
There!
Found it.
Pretty far away though.
Then let's get going.
Wow. Good thing
we have you, Ono.
Yeah. You might not
be the keenest of sight,
but you're still bright.
I guess.
Guess nothing, Ono.
You're the
Pride Lands' smartest.
(SNARLS)
Lion Guard.
Makucha.
How many times have
I told you to stay out
of my territory?
Makucha, listen.
We don't want
any trouble.
We're just passing through.
Oh, yeah?
Try passing
through this!
(GRUNTING)
Back off, Makucha.
Or do you think you
can take us all on,
all by yourself?
No. That's why
I brought some friends.
(BOTH GROWLING)
(GASPS)
Ono, come on! Let's go!
Makini? What are you doing?
Keeping you safe.
But I want to help!
ANGA: Anga-lenga!
Ah!
An eagle?
That's right.
We've got friends, too.
Zuka Zama!
(GRUNTING)
Cheetahs. Nothing but little
leopard wanna-bees.
(CHUCKLES) Except
smaller and weaker.
(BOTH GROWL)
And a whole lot faster.
BESHTE: And I'm
bigger and stronger.
(BOTH SCREAMING)
(GRUNTING) Whoa!
(SHUDDERING)
You'll be fine up here.
Uh, thanks?
(HIGH-FREQUENCY RINGING)
Do you hear that?
What is it?
I'm not sure.
(GROWLING)
(GRUNTS)
What is that?
Heyvi kabisa!
Un-Bunga-lievable.
Everyone! Down!
(SCREAMING)
(COUGHING)
Hi, Beshte.
Thanks for keeping us
from blowing away.
Anytime. Happy to help.
Anga!
Do you see shelter?
I can't see anything.
What are we gonna do?
Gotta think of something.
(SPEAKING OTHER LANGUAGE)
Everyone, there were
some big rocks back
near the waterfall.
We can hide behind them.
Ono's right.
This way.
Follow me.
What did she say?
She said to follow her.
She said I'm a ball of fur?
Look out!
Whoa.
What? What just happened?
Hapana!
No!
Almost there.
(ALL COUGHING)
Woo!
That was un-Bunga-lievable.
(COUGHS)
(GROANS) Everyone okay?
MAKUCHA: We're fine.
Thanks for asking.
Get out of here,
Makucha. (GROWLS)
This is my territory.
You're the ones
who should get out.
(GROWLS)
Oh.
Shwari,  Kion.
Is your scar hurting?
Maybe you
need some tuliza.
Here.
Back off, Makini.
(GROWLS)
Uh, Kion?
Makini's on
our side. Remember?
Oh, yeah.
Sorry, Makini.
It's okay.
But I think you really
need some tuliza  right now.
Yeah.
Thanks.
(SWALLOWS)
Okay, let's get going.
I don't know, Kion.
That wind's
awful strong.
Even for me.
And I can't
see in it.
They're right.
We should wait it out here.
Wait out a harmattan?
(SCOFFS) That's ridiculous.
A harmattan?
Of course.
A what-a-thon?
A harmattan.
It's a powerful dust storm.
It strikes without warning
and can last for days.
Days? (SCOFFS)
You mean weeks.
Sorry, Kion.
I heard it coming,
but I couldn't figure
out what it was.
Don't worry about it, Ono.
Nothing you could
have done to stop it.
Kion, we can't
wait here for weeks.
MAKUCHA: You got that right.
There's no way I'm putting up
with you for that long.
Not with that smelly hedgehog
hanging around.
That's "smelly
honey badger" to you.
Maybe he tastes
better than he smells.
Everyone, calm down.
None of us want to be
stuck here together,
but we're all better off
here than out there.
Maybe we can
get you out of here,
even with the harmattan.
BOTH: We can?
Yes.
Nobody knows
the Back Lands like me.
I can find a safe path
through the winds.
I don't know.
It's not like
I want to help you.
I just want you
out of my territory.
Uh, Kion,
can we talk? Alone?
Uh, sure?
I don't trust Makucha.
This might be a trap.
I know, but... Ow.
We do need to get
to the Tree of Life
as soon as we can.
He might be
our best chance.
But...
But what?
Come on, Fuli. If it's a trap,
you know we can handle 'em.
Yeah, I guess.
The winds
are dying down.
If we're gonna go,
now's our chance.
Lead the way, Makucha.
Don't worry, Ono.
If anything happens,
I'll get you to safety.
That's the problem, Makini.
I'm on the Lion Guard.
I should be helping
animals to safety,
not the other way around.
But you still do, Ono.
You helped us get
to safety when you
heard the harmattan coming.
Now, come on.
Hmm, I guess.
(HIGH-FREQUENCY RINGING)
Everyone? I think
the harmattan winds
are picking up again.
Ono's right. Look.
Forget looking.
If you wanna survive,
you better run.
Everyone,
head for that canyon.
Hurry!
(ROCK CRACKING)
(GRUNTING)
Kion!
Makucha?
Whoa. Thanks, Makucha.
Uh... No problem.
Makucha actually
saved you?
Un-Bunga-lievable!
Maybe he's not
as bad as I thought.
Maybe he really is just
trying to help us out
of his territory.
You actually
saved the lion?
It's not like I meant to.
I was saving myself,
and he got in the way.
Sounds like the winds
are dying down again.
Yep, and it's a good thing.
We still have
a long way to go.
The eagle's right. Let's go.
Stick with me, and I'll
get you out of my
territory in no time.
And the sooner the better.
Isn't this fun, Anga?
Fun?
Yes.
I can't wait to see
the Tree of Life again.
It's so beautiful.
Ugh. Does she
ever stop talking?
MAKINI: Wait till you see
all the animals there.
The rarest animals from
everywhere live there.
Did she say "rare animals"?
So many animals
from all over go to the
Tree of Life to be safe.
And it's so hard to find.
So it's a good thing
I know how to get there.
Hmm, interesting.
Come here.
Change of plan.
We're not leading
the Lion Guard out
of our territory anymore.
Oh, oh. We're going
to ditch them? (CHUCKLES)
Leave them lost
in the Back Lands?
Oh. We're gonna do
more than that.
The Lion Guard's
going to the Tree of Life.
And the mandrill knows
how to get there.
Uh, the Tree of Life?
Yeah. Rare animals
from all over go
there to be safe.
(LICKING CHOPS)
(CHUCKLES)
And there's nothing I like
better than rare animals
who think they're safe.
♪ There's a place
I've heard of
♪ But never thought was real
♪ Where animals seek safety
♪ And hurt ones go to heal
♪ But now I know
It's out there
♪ This place is calling me
♪ For, oh, so many reasons
♪ I just can't wait to see
♪ The Tree of Life
The Tree of Life
♪ The rare and exotic
♪ The weak and the lame
♪ No need for hunting
Instead, it's a game
♪ A menu so varied
Just waiting for us
♪ At the Tree
♪ At the Tree of Life
♪ We just need some guidance
To help us find the way
♪ To those fantastic morsels
We'll dine on every day
♪ I just can't wait
To taste them
♪ Delicious, rare delights
♪ At least beyond our dreaming
♪ Is where I set my sights
♪ The Tree of Life
The Tree of Life
♪ The rare and exotic
♪ The weak and the lame
♪ No need for hunting
Instead, it's a game
♪ A menu so varied
Just waiting for us
♪ At the Tree
♪ The Tree of Life
The Tree of Life
♪ The rare and exotic
♪ The weak and the lame
♪ No need for hunting
Instead, it's a game
♪ A menu so varied
Just waiting for us
♪ At the Tree
♪ At the Tree of Life ♪
Ooh, sounds good.
Count me in.
What do we do?
There's a cliff
not far from here.
We lead
the Lion Guard off it,
grab the mandrill,
and make her take us
to the Tree of Life.
If we do it
when the storm
is blinding them,
they'll never
see it coming.
(LAUGHING MALICIOUSLY)
Makucha?
Where is he?
He's supposed
to be leading us.
You think he's lost?
Well, if he is, we are.
Still having fun?
(MAKUCHA LAUGHING)
Hello, Lion Guard.
Makucha. Where'd you go?
We had to scout ahead
for the safest route.
Good news is,
we're getting close.
Come on.
But the harmattan winds
sound like they're
getting stronger.
Shouldn't we wait?
As much as I'm enjoying
our little trip,
I really want you
out of here.
Okay. Lion Guard,
let's head out.
Whoa! They sure are
in a hurry to get rid of us.
Makucha!
These winds are crazy!
I think we should stop.
Just keep following me.
We're almost there.
How can you tell?
I can't see anything.
Strange.
The wind's blowing
straight at us now.
But it wasn't before.
(SQUAWKS)
(GROANS)
The harmattan winds
always blow the same way.
Why did they suddenly
change direction?
(SPEAKING OTHER LANGUAGE)
(GASPS) Of course.
The wind's not going
a different direction.
We're going
a different direction!
Makucha's leading us
the wrong way.
I have to tell Kion.
(GRUNTING)
Hapana!
Straight ahead.
That's the way out
of my territory.
Just keep going.
And don't come back.
Why does he think
we'd wanna come back?
Never thought
I'd say this, but thanks
for your help, Makucha.
Believe me,
it was my pleasure.
Let's go.
Me first.
I can't wait
to get out of here.
(GASPS) Guys?
You see Ono?
Oh, no. Where could he be?
(GRUNTING)
Okay, I'll grab
the mandrill.
You two rush
the Lion Guard.
Oh. You think
they'll fight back?
I think they'll fall
off the cliff.
(LAUGHS) I can't
wait to see that.
I'll look for Ono!
(GRUNTS)
Found him.
Everyone! Everyone,
we're going the wrong way.
The wrong way?
I think Makucha's
up to something.
But I don't know what.
(BUNGA SCREAMS)
ALL: Bunga!
Look out! It's a cliff!
(GASPS) Oh, no.
Poor Bunga.
BUNGA: I'm okay.
Hang in there, Little B.
Yeah, we'll get you.
No hurry.
(CRUNCHING)
These Back Lands
termites are yummy.
MAKINI: Help!
Hey, I thought
we were friends.
(GROWLING)
KION: I'm coming, Makini!
(SCREAMS)
(GRUNTS)
Try that with me.
(GROWLING)
(EXCLAIMS)
Twende Kiboko!
(GRUNTS)
This is not very nice.
(SCREAMS)
(GROWLS)
I never should
have trusted you!
You got that right.
Guys?
How's it going up there?
(SCREAMING)
Anga! Nice timing!
ANGA: Yup.
You can get me off here.
(GRUNTS)
Miss me?
(ONO SHUDDERING)
Oh. This is much better.
(CHUCKLES)
(HIGH-FREQUENCY RINGING)
Hapana.  What's that?
The harmattan
is getting even stronger.
We gotta warn everyone.
(ALL GRUNTING)
Get behind the rocks.
Now!
What's that bird
squawking about?
I don't know.
I can't hear him.
Dig in, everyone.
This sounds like
the biggest wind yet.
(LEOPARDS SCREAMING)
Ugh. How'd we get here?
And where is here?
(GROWLS) Get off of me.
(SNARLING)
You okay, Makucha?
I'm fine.
And I've got a new plan.
We're gonna follow
the Lion Guard
to the Tree of Life.
Do we have to?
Yes.
Once we're there, we'll get
rid of the Lion Guard
and feast on all those
delicious rare animals.
Uh, pass.
The Lion Guard's
too much for us.
Yeah. Count us out.
Then I'll just go
to the Tree of Life
without you.
You do that.
Yes. See you.
Fine.
That just means
all those rare animals
will be mine.
(LAUGHING MALICIOUSLY)
(SIGHS) We're here.
Yup, that's an
iroko tree, all right.
And here's the next
moja kwa moja  stone.
Oh. It looks like
it's warning us
about a wind storm.
Little late for that.
It's okay. We got through
the harmattan all right.
Thanks to Ono.
See, Ono? You don't have
to see to help the Guard.
Not when you're the smartest.
Common knowledge, really.
Guess I'm still getting used
to my new role on the team.
The team wouldn't be
the same without you.
So, where to next?
Nowaza...
After the iroko tree,
we need to find
a mountain with two peaks.
Got it. This way.
Okay, everyone.
Let's go find
the Tree of Life.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)